hey everyone welcome to the season
finale of the Chinese sayings podcast
man that flew by episode 10 already for
the first time I get to say this Chung
you for Chinese saying isn't from the
Joe dynasty no spring and autumn warring
States or anything like that we're in
the fabulous song dynasty the northern
song in all its splendor and glory this
is the time of the third song dynasty
emperor zhongzong his father was the
younger brother of the Song Dynasty
founder Chow quan yin we're still in the
good old days as far as the northern
song is concerned today we'll look at
the backstory behind the old saying
gujju ye jerk here's the blow-by-blow
cool in this case means alone or
solitary jus has several meanings but
here it means the stakes as in as in a
gambling wager gujju a single wager e is
the character for one the number one and
Germans to throw but in this example
means to throw dice eater one throw of
the dice a solitary wager throw the dice
ok no need to explain what that means
you bet all your chips on one throw of
the dice not terribly difficult so let
me call Sherman and mr. Peabody and
let's hop inside the Wayback Machine and
head to the time of the late 10th early
11th century and let's see what's up at
the gentle Emperor let's introduce
today's lineup of stars i already
mentioned the song emperor zhongzong
there's also his Chancellor colon and
the minister Wang Ching roll those two
were not friendly and close we remember
from all those CHP episodes that even
though the Song Dynasty was a great time
in Chinese history commercially
economically artistically
gastronomically and in a dozen other
ways despite all that they were
surrounded by enemies and the cost to
defend themselves by maintaining massive
six figure standing armies and to pay
off the various northern and western
peoples
the cost was not small soon after John
song became emperor the great power of
that day the chitin liao dynasty to the
north they decided to test the Emperor's
metal I'm going with the dan carlin
pronunciation in Mandarin these people
were known as that she done during the
summer in the year 1004 they invaded
from the north and song forces battled
them but couldn't hold him back and we
featured that sheet on leal found her
about G in an old CHP episode number 126
and their day they were the biggest and
baddest of them all so in this moment of
crisis with the Leal force is fast
approaching the Emperor was first
visited by his Minister Wang Ching raw
who advised him better close down shop
and get out of town before the cheetah
is get here he suggested to move the
capital which in those days meant to
move the Emperor to where present a
Nanjing is on the south side of the
Yangtze River another official in
chanyeol soul approached jun song and
suggested maybe it was a better idea to
move the capital out to chengdu far from
harm's way where he came from now no one
was saying let's stay and fight jun song
was really starting to get a bad feeling
about everything and went to his most
trusted minister coach one to ask him
what he thought and the important thing
about coach one is that in Chinese
history when you list out all the top 10
Chancellor's or prime ministers he
always makes the list he's one of the
good ones anyways he got wind of what
wang xin raw and chanyeol soul were
advocating and he went before jun zhang
and said you know pretending not to know
who made those two proposals that
abandoning cai phone was a terrible idea
and that whoever proposed such a thing
coach Ewen said was committing a capital
crime kochu him and his supporters said
they should stand and fight he said that
so great is His Majesty's Royal presence
if he showed up to personally rally the
song true
oops against the shitani ow it would
lead them to victory the Chancellor
continued saying that the cheat on army
200,000 strong had come a long way and
were an unfamiliar territory and worn
out already some forces had several
advantages over them why walk away from
the ancestral temple in chi Fong so easy
so persuasive was coach one that the
emperor zhongzong followed his advice
and he went out to the front to rally
the troops against the shitani I'll army
when he caught up with his army
somewhere north of chi Fong the soldiers
and civilians spirits were uplifted and
indeed the Emperor's Royal presence
provided the moral support that allowed
them to push the leal back and to defeat
them at the town of china anne a hundred
miles north of the sun capital and from
this defeat of the Liao came the treaty
of China un the Challenger Hmong that
she tans agreed not to invade song
territory in exchange for a huge chunk
of change and for henceforth being
treated as diplomatic equals to the
Emperor and kai Tong so they got paid
off essentially but the arrangement
worked for 20 years and there was
relative peace between Al and song but
if you remember from those past China
history podcast episodes all the other
bad guys surrounding China will see what
the cheetah is did and they'll try and
cut similar deals with the song Emperor
and then the business model became in
tenable so the Emperor went back to chi
Fong triumphant and you can imagine
colon was the hottest property in the
government he was the one who came up
with the idea to take the fight to the
chi tons and he stood by the Emperor
side throughout the ordeal but wang xin
raw never forgave coach one for
challenging him so brazenly in front of
the big guy so he was bent on toppling
coach wooden one day when he had the
Emperor's ear he at once began
badmouthing coachman and saying this
whole treaty of China and was a shameful
moment for the nation he compared the
acquiescence at China
to a similar treaty from ancient times
signed under duress when the enemy was
already at the city walls he really laid
into how coach one just gave away the
store and Wang Ching raw began to see
the Emperor was wavering now where he
stood so he said to him coach one was
using the Emperor's life as an
all-or-nothing wager he acted like a
classic reckless gambler and in the book
of Coach one from the song shoe the book
of Song it said he was accused of gujju
a jerk and Wang Ching raw was able to
convince the Emperor that his so-called
loyal minister cochin used the Emperor
as a guju like a double or nothing wager
maybe the wager succeeded but it was a
gamble that recklessly used the
Emperor's royal person so ever since
hearing that Jang Song began to give
coach him the cold shoulder he didn't
banish him or anything but he did five
him off to a less prestigious posting
than the palace at chi Fong and this
Chung you gucci jerk has come to
describe a reckless gamble betting the
bank on one throw of the dice so that me
little beauties is going to be that
gujju a single wager a jerk one throw of
the dice to bet the bank sometimes you
win sometimes you lose and sometimes the
blues just get a hold of you that's our
Chung you for this time our tenth and
final episode for season 1 i'll be
working with the whole team at the
cheung yu-yan chu zhang xin our newly
built chung new research center getting
season 2 written recorded and all that
jazz gonna take a few weeks off we'll
relax in st. Barths and maybe meet up
with Ringo and Monte Carlo we'll see
rest assured season two is coming your
way soon but not too soon you know what
they say about all work and no play this
is laszlo Montgomery signing off once
again from the city of angels california
USA don't forget there's more than just
this chinese sayings podcast there's the
china history podcast and china vintage
our
all from teacup media teacup dot media
go check it out I'm not asking you to
leave a review or five star rating but
if you want to I won't hold it against
you take care everyone